= mvc

A collection of helpers, MVC mixins and PORs (plain-old-ruby-object) to assist with auto-generating ExtJS Stores (Ext.data.Store) including its associated DataReader (Ext.data.JsonReader, Ext.data.XmlReader) and DataWriter (Ext.data.JsonWriter, Ext.data.XmlWriter).  Also contains a helper for rendering javascript component definitions via partials.

See tutorial http://www.extjs.com/blog/2009/09/30/ext-js-on-rails-a-comprehensivetutorial/

===Installation
	% sudo gem install gemcutter
	% gem tumble   (only have to do this once, adds gemcutter as primary gem-source)
	% sudo gem install extjs-mvc

<b>Rails Installation:</b>
In <tt>environment.rb</tt>, 

    Rails::Initializer.run do |config|
        config.gem "extjs-mvc"
    end

<b>Merb installation:</b>
In <tt>config/dependencies.rb</tt>, Add extjs-mvc as a new dependency
	
	dependency "extjs-mvc"

=== An ORM Model mixin:  ExtJS::Model
extjs-mvc contains Model mixin named <tt>ExtJS::Model</tt> which works for <b>three</b> popular ORM frameworks, ActiveRecord, DataMapper and MongoMapper.  The API for each framework is identical.

Simply include the mixin into your model.  Use the class-method <tt>extjs_fields</tt> to specify those
fields with will be used to render the <tt>Ext.data.Record.create</tt> field-def'n.

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    include ExtJS::Model

    extjs_fields :exclude => [:password, :password_confirmation]
    
    # OR 
    extjs_fields :name, :description
    
    # OR define a column as a Hash
    extjs_fields :description, :name => {"sortDir" => "ASC"}, :created_at => {"dateFormat" => "c"}
	
    # OR render associations, association-fields will have their "mapping" property set automatically
    extjs_fields :name, :description, :company => [:name, :description]
    
  end

After including the model mixin <tt>ExtJS::Model</tt>, try typing the following in <tt>irb</tt> console:
    >> User.extjs_record
    => { :idProperty=>"id", :fields=>[
         {:type=>'int', :allowBlank=>true, :name=>"id"},
         {:type=>'string', :allowBlank=>false, :name=>"first", :defaultValue => nil},
         {:type=>'string', :allowBlank=>false, :name=>"last", :defaultValue => nil},
         {:type=>'string', :allowBlank=>false, :name=>"email", :defaultValue => nil}
       ]}

An auto-generated <tt>Ext.data.JsonReader</tt> configuration!


You can also define different sets of fields for different representation of your model.

E.g. with the following definition:

    class User < ActiveRecord::Base
      include ExtJS::Model

      extjs_fieldset :grid, fields => [:name, :description, :company => [:name, :description]]
      extjs_fieldset :combo, [:full_name]
  
      def full_name
        "#{first_name} #{name}"
      end
    end

You can get store configs for both representations with
    User.extjs_record(:grid)
or
    User.extjs_record(:combo)
    
And the corresponding data for the representations with
    User.first.to_record(:grid)
or
    User.first.to_record(:combo)


=== An ActionController mixin:  ExtJS::Controller
The <tt>extjs-mvc</tt> Gem includes a framework agnostic Controller mixin which works with both Rails and Merb.  Include this mixin into any controller which will need to generate an <tt>Ext.data.Store</tt>.
<b>usage:</b>

    class UsersController < ActionController::Base
        include ExtJS::Controller
    end
	
=== View Helper:  ExtJS::Helpers::Component

<b>usage:</b>

    class UserController < ActionController::Base
      include ExtJS::Controller
      helper ExtJS::Helpers::Component
    end

Now render Ext components using helper method <tt>extjs_component</tt>

    @viewport = extjs_component(
      "xtype" => "viewport",
      "frame" => true,
      "layout" => "border")
    @viewport.add("xtype" => "panel", "contentEl" => "hd", "region" => "north", "height" => 30)
    @viewport.add(:partial => "/users/grid", "itemId" => "users-grid", "region" => "west")
    @viewport.add(:partial => "/tasks/grid", "itemId" => "tasks-grid", "region" => "center")
    @viewport.add("xtype" => "panel", "contentEl" => "ft", "region" => "south", "height" => 20)

Note how it can also render partials.  Partials will be invoked with a local-variable named "container", a reference to the
parent Ext::Component instance which added the partial.  If no "container" is specified, it would be expected that your partial
would provide its own "renderTo" or "contentEl" property, just as in Ext.Component from ExtJS javascript library.


=== View Helper:  ExtJS::Helpers::Store

Renders an  Ext.data.Store with helper method <tt>extjs_store</tt>

    class UserController < ActionController::Base
      include ExtJS::Controller
      helper ExtJS::Helpers::Store
    end

Now render a store in an erb template:

    @store = extjs_store(
      :controller => "users",
      :proxy => "http"  # <-- default
      :format => "json" # <-- default
      :model => "user", # <-- default: controller_name.singularize
      :writer => {:encode => false},
      :config => {      # <-- standard Ext.data.Store config-params
        "autoLoad" => true
        "autoSave" => true
      }
    )

    %= @store.render %

=== A Testing Mixin:  ExtJS::TestMacros
The <tt>extjs-mvc</tt> Gem includes a small set of testing macros to help unit-test models.
This requires the 'Shoulda' gem from thoughtbot.  Include this mixin inside the
<tt>ActiveSupport::TestCase</tt> class in <tt>test/test_helper.rb</tt>

==== Usage
<tt>test/test_helper.rb</tt>
    class ActiveSupport::TestCase
      extend ExtJS::TestMacros
      #...
    end

In individual model unit tests:
    class ModelTest < ActiveSupport::TestCase
      should_require_extjs_fields :name, :email, :city
      #...
      #other tests
    end


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Chris Scott. See LICENSE for details.
